On the openMaze for “dfs” Pacman’s expanded nodes materialized heavily in the left side of the maze. 
This occurs because Pacman is expanding node successors of successors (going down the search tree) and is thoroughly searching down the tree before returning to the top. His actual path snakes down the open maze.

Comparatively, on the openMaze for “bfs” Pacman’s expanded nodes materialize in a gradient that stems from the starting position and equally fades in the direction of the goal. Pacman himself moves towards the goal more efficiently than “dfs”. 
“Bfs” is overall better for finding the shorter path to a goal, as it searches each level of the tree before moving on to the next level.

Interestingly enough, it appears that “ucs” has the exact same result as bfs on the open maze. I know that “ucs” should be more efficient than “bfs” in most contexts, so it is a little strange that this looks identical and prints identical data. 

Running “astar” search (with the Manhattan heuristic) resulted in about 100 less nodes being expanded, and there were several parts of the open maze that had no gradient on them at all. This means that the algorithm was able to successfully prune irrelevant nodes and more efficiently search the tree. This makes sense, as “astar” search uses both information from the past and information in possible nodes to make its decisions. 

The newly implemented heuristics are the random and Euclidean heuristics. The random heuristic is neither admissible nor consistent. It is not admissible because it can overestimate the total cost (the random integer is not related to the actual cost at all) and it is not consistent because it can also overestimate the step cost for the same reason. The Euclidean heuristic, however, is both admissible and consistent. Since the Euclidean distance is just a line from the position to the goal, the distance of the solution path should never be less than that, and therefore the Euclidean distance cannot overestimate the cost. For that same reason, the Euclidean distance is consistent, as the step cost will never be more than the estimated step cost. The Euclidean distance is very optimistic. 

Since the Euclidean distance is optimistic, it expands significantly less nodes, and takes a shorter path on average to get there. On the open maze, the random heuristic’s gradient is choppy looking, and both the nodes it expands and the path it takes is random every time. Overall, since the Euclidean heuristic actually uses data relevant to the goal, it makes a lot of sense that is is more efficient. 


